AWS has something called as 
Shared Security Responsibility Model
The secuirty responsibility is shared both between Users and AWS
AWS Responsibilities(Security of the cloud and the infra)
Managed Services

AWS has some built in security services like cloudwatch

Data Handling:

AWS performs something called as Internal Data Wipe.

Compliance:

The compliance standards for various regions needs to be followed.

Customer responsibilities
Configuration and Management
Security and Automation

AWS Soft Limit - Imposes something called as a region based soft limits which can simply mean the number of resources which you can spin on each server based on the regions

Disaster Recovery with AWS - A well planned DR strategy should be there
A: Key DR Metrics
RTO: Recovery time objectives: Maximum acceptable downtime after disaster

RPO - Recovery Point Objectivce - Maximum Acceptable amount of Dataloss you can bear

There are various types of DR Model available on AWS.
- Backup and restore - Periodic backups
- Pilot Lite - Always on-going


Internet Gateway

NAT Gateway:

Instances sitting on your subnet when they need to send outbound traffic.
NAT Gateway supports 10 GB of internet bandwidth

Allows instances in private subnet to initiate outbound traffic to the internet without exposing the the private IP Addess. it is managed by AWS, high bandwidth(busrtabl upto 10 gb, HA with multi AZ support)
NAT Instances
Self Managed EC2 instances configured to perform NAT.
Requires manual diasbing of Source/destination checks.
Bandwidth is limited by instance type.


Routing:
Private Subnets will have the route(0.0.0.0/0) point to NAT Device.

DHCP 
(Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) Option sets:
Automatically assign IP addresses and Provide Config settings to instance in a VPC.

VPC Peering - Method to connect two VPCs(be it on same account, cross account, cross region)

key steps:
1. The owner of VPC1 initiate a peering reqiest with VPC2.
2. Both VPC's must have non-overlappting CIDR Blocks.
3. Update the ROute Tables.

VPC Endpoints
Provides a private communication b/w your VPC and AWS Services >



