Cloud Services Models : IAAS, PAAS, SAAS

IAAS: Infrastructure as a Service. Renting Servers, where you have control over the OS, Storage, Security, Applications. You need to understand this is just the hardware services.
PAAS: Platform as a Service. Offers not only hardware and storage, but also the development tools and platforms needed to build and deploy the apps.
SAAS: Delivers the Software Apps over the internet 

Type of Cloud 
Private, Public and Hybrid

Private Cloud: Infra is dedicated to a single organisation. The ability should still be there for compute, storage and network.
Public Cloud: Shared Platform which was available to the public on demand basis.
Hybrid Cloud: Combine Public and Private Cloud. Sometimes the organisation needs to combine public and private cloud. If there are some sensitive information to be stored then the organisationw will be going to private cloud.
Multi Cloud: AWS, Azure and GCP. Many organisation will have multiple cloud providers depending upon their need.

The Evolution of Cloud Computing:

Evolution of the computers over the years:
1950s: Mainframe Computers aka dumb terminals... HP Tandem ()
1970s: VMs, Flexibility, Ability to run multiple OS on a single machine.
1990s: Shared infrastructure.
2000s: Enterprise Application Services (Salesforce) and Amazon Datacentres
2004 - 2006: AWS Launched, GCP, Azure

The Backbone of the Cloud infrastructure infra is:
Virtualization, Elasticity and Scalability

Virtualization: Key tech behind the Cloud computing is virtualization. 
Class 1 - Baremetal
Class 2 - Hosted

Elasticity vs Scalability

Scalability can be called as the ability to add resources on demand.
There are two types Scalability - Horizontal and Vertical
Horizontal scalability (Scale Out) is the ability to add more servers to handle traffic/load.
Vertical Scalability (Scale up) - ABility to upgrade existing servers with more cpu or memory

Elasticity(Scaling up or down) - 
Automatic ability to scale resources up or down as per demand.

